A B S T R A C T
Generating research hypotheses is a crucial step in scientific investigation that involves the creation of precise,
verifiable, and logically valid statements that can be empirically examined. Therefore, many efforts have
been made to automate or assist this process through the use of various Artificial Intelligence solutions.
However, most existing methods are tailored to very specific domains, particularly within the biomedical
field. There have been recent attempts to formalize hypothesis generation as a link prediction task over
knowledge graphs. This solution is potentially domain-independent and applicable across diverse disciplines.
Nevertheless, current approaches for link prediction, which typically rely on embedding models or path-based
methods, have shown limited success in accurately predicting new hypotheses. To address these limitations, this
paper introduces ResearchLink, an innovative and domain-independent methodology for hypothesis generation
over knowledge graphs. ResearchLink combines path-based features and knowledge graph embeddings with
text embeddings, capturing the semantic context of entities within a given corpus, and integrates additional
information from bibliometric databases to improve research collaboration predictions. To conduct a rigorous
evaluation of ResearchLink, we constructed CSKG-600, a new dataset for hypothesis generation, consisting of
600 statements that were manually labeled by domain experts. ResearchLink achieved outstanding performance
(78.7% P@20), significantly outperforming alternative approaches such as TransH (71.8%), TransD (71.7%),
and RotatE (70.7%).

1. Introduction
Research hypothesis generation is a fundamental process in scientific inquiry that involves the formulation of specific, testable, and
logically sound hypotheses that can be subjected to empirical testing.
Therefore, many efforts have been made to automate or assist this
process through the use of various Artificial Intelligence (AI) solutions.
Indeed, the automatic generation of research hypotheses represents one
of the most intriguing tasks in the field of AI as it encompasses both
a creative aspect, wherein computers attempt to emulate the intuition
of human researchers, and a predictive component, where they strive
to anticipate future developments within a specific domain [1–3].
Furthermore, integrating AI-powered hypothesis generation into scientific practices can have a transformative impact, allowing scientists
∗Corresponding author.
E-mail addresses: borrego@us.es (A. Borrego), ddessi@sharjah.ac.ae (D. Dessì), dayala1@us.es (D. Ayala), inmahernandez@us.es (I. Hernández),
francesco.osborne@open.ac.uk (F. Osborne), diego.reforgiato@unica.it (D. Reforgiato Recupero), davide.buscaldi@lipn.univ-paris13.fr (D. Buscaldi), druiz@us.es
(D. Ruiz), enrico.motta@open.ac.uk (E. Motta).
to effectively combine multidisciplinary information, accelerating the
process of knowledge discovery, and leading to breakthroughs that
might have otherwise remained elusive.
The research community has been actively addressing the challenge of research hypothesis generation for several years [4,5]. Current
approaches generally focus on proposing novel and non-trivial associations between existing concepts (e.g., chemical compounds and
diseases) that could be interpreted as testable research hypotheses. The
resulting hypotheses are then evaluated by human researchers, who
choose the most promising ones for further investigation. However,
most existing methods are tailored to highly specific domains, such
as detecting new associations between drugs and diseases, particularly within the biomedical field [6–8]. This narrow specialization
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.knosys.2025.113280
Received 25 August 2023; Received in revised form 25 November 2024; Accepted 26 February 2025
Knowledge-Based Systems 315 (2025) 113280
Available online 8 March 2025
0950-7051/© 2025 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier B.V. This is an open access article under the CC BY license ( http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/ ).

A. Borrego et al.
significantly limits their versatility and applicability to other research
areas.
Recently, there have been some efforts to formalize hypothesis generation as a link prediction task over knowledge graphs of research concepts [3,9]. This solution is potentially domain-independent and applicable across diverse disciplines, provided they offer a machine-readable
representation of the essential domain entities and their connections.
Knowledge graphs (KGs) are data structures used for organizing and
representing structured information semantically [10]. By effectively
capturing relationships between entities and attributes, KGs facilitate
the provision of machine-actionable insights into various intelligent
services [11]. The relationship between two entities is typically formalized as a triple (sometimes called statement) in the form of <subject,
predicate, object>, e.g., <Bill Gates, founderOf, Microsoft>, <Artificial_Intelligence, subtopicOf, Computer_Science>. In recent years, there has been
a notable emergence of KGs specifically dedicated to representing
research knowledge. These KGs typically contain a set of entities in
this space (e.g., tasks, methods, evaluation techniques, datasets, proteins, chemicals), their relations, and the relevant actors (e.g., authors,
organizations) and documents (e.g., articles, books) [11–18]. This resources can be further enriched by integrating the numerous knowledge
organization systems developed across scientific disciplines to describe
research fields at different levels of granularity [19].
Link prediction involves the identification of additional relationships between entities in a graph [20,21]. It is commonly used for
knowledge graph completion, whose aim is to discover missing links in the
graph that may be absent due to various factors, including gaps in the
process of constructing the KG [22]. In the context of hypothesis generation, link prediction solutions can utilize the contextual knowledge
from a KG to identify promising but previously unknown connections
between entities that may represent valid hypotheses. For example, a
common pattern in Computer Science involves the reuse of algorithms
developed for specific tasks on different ones. A notable instance of this
concept is the recent application of BERT [23], a state-of-the-art model
for Natural Language Processing, on protein prediction tasks, such as
protein family classification and protein interaction prediction [24].
The intuition behind this discovery can be represented as a new relationship of type usesMethod between the Protein_Prediction task and
the BERT method.
The standard solutions for link prediction over KGs are typically
based on knowledge graph embedding (KGE) models [25,26] (e.g.,
𝑇𝑟𝑎𝑛𝑠𝐸 [27], 𝑇𝑟𝑎𝑛𝑠𝐻 [28], 𝑇𝑟𝑎𝑛𝑠𝐷 [29], 𝑅𝑜𝑡𝑎𝑡𝐸 [30]), path-based approaches [31,32], or graph convolutional networks (e.g., 𝑅𝐺𝐶𝑁 [33]).
However, while these solutions have demonstrated proficiency in KG
completion tasks, their performance diminishes when tasked with predicting links that are not necessarily entailed by current knowledge,
but may emerge in the future as research hypotheses. This limitation
arises from two main factors. First, many statements produced by these
techniques are trivial and do not necessarily qualify as hypotheses. For
example, the triple <deep_learning, uses, electricity>, although true, does not represent a meaningful research hypothesis worth
exploring. It is simply a piece of information absent from our current
representation. Furthermore, predicting future links may necessitate
incorporating data beyond the KG, such as the occurrences of relevant
entities in bibliometric databases and their semantic meanings inferred
from the scientific literature.
To address these issues, we introduce ResearchLink, an innovative
and domain-independent methodology for hypothesis generation over
KGs. ResearchLink combines path-based features and KGEs with text
embeddings, which capture the semantic context of an entity within
a given corpus, and additional information about the occurrences of
relevant entities in the literature. It is adaptable to any domain that
provides a KG of relevant entities.
To enable rigorous evaluation, we have developed CSKG-600, a
new dataset for research hypothesis generation. Since ResearchLink
is designed for generating hypotheses rather than identifying missing
facts, it cannot be assessed using standard KG completion benchmarks
such as FB15k and WN18RR. CSKG-600 contains 600 hypotheses derived from the Computer Science Knowledge Graph (CS-KG)1 [11]
that were manually reviewed by three senior research scientists. CS-
KG is an open large-scale knowledge graph comprising over 41M
statements about 10M entities extracted automatically from 6.7M scientific articles. ResearchLink achieves remarkable performance without
using any domain-specific features and outperforms several alternative
approaches.
In summary, the main contributions of this paper are the following:
• We propose ResearchLink, a domain-independent methodology
for research hypothesis generation over knowledge graphs.
• We release a new dataset for hypothesis generation: CSKG-600,
including 600 manually annotated triples.
• We report an evaluation comparing ResearchLink against several
alternative methods and analyze the impact of the novel features
proposed in this paper on its overall performance.
• We make available the full source code of ResearchLink at https:
//github.com/dayala1/ResearchLink so that it can be easily reused
in other fields.
The remainder of this paper is organized as follows. Section 2
discusses the related work. Section 3 describes ResearchLink in detail.
Section 4 reports the evaluation. Section 5 discuss the limitations of the
proposed approach. Finally, Section 6 concludes the paper and presents
future directions of research.

3. Methodology
This paper introduces ResearchLink, a new domain-independent
hypothesis generation methodology. ResearchLink takes in input a KG
that describes the relations between research entities and returns a
set of novel triples, establishing new connections between previously
unrelated entities, that can be interpreted as plausible research hypotheses. Some examples of these KGs are CS-KG [11], ORKG [15],
Nanopublications [18], and UMLS [16].
The input KG contains a set of statements in the form of <subject,
predicate, object>, connecting two entities (subject and object) through
a relationship [10]. They can be any type of research element, such
as methods, tasks, or materials. Relationships describe the connections,
e.g., a task can be addressed using a certain method, or a given method
can be employed to process a specific material. KGs are structured
based on a domain ontology, which formally defines entity types and
relations while supporting reasoning processes [88]. The ontology
also defines the domain and range of relationships, ensuring that only
specific types of entities can serve as the subject and object of a
triple when a given relationship is used. For instance, in an ontology
designed for a medical database, the relation ‘‘has symptom’’ might
have a domain of ‘‘Diseases’’ and a range of ‘‘Symptoms’’. This means
that only entities classified as diseases can be the subject of a triple
whose predicate is ‘‘has symptom’’.
Formally, the problem we aim to solve is: given a KG consisting of
a set 𝑇 of triples ⟨𝑠, 𝑝, 𝑜⟩, where 𝑠 and 𝑜 are research entities and 𝑟 a
relationship between them, we want to create a model 𝑓(𝑇) →𝐻 that,
given a collection of triples belonging to 𝑇 and, optionally, additional
information from external sources, it generates a set of triples 𝐻 where
𝑇∩𝐻= ∅ and ⟨𝑠, 𝑝′, 𝑜⟩∈𝐻 is a plausible research hypothesis.
It is important to note that, as discussed in the introduction, 𝑝′ does
not correspond to a classic link prediction task. This is because research
hypotheses are not merely missing facts; they possess very specific
characteristics. In particular, the new link between 𝑠 and 𝑜 must suggest
a novel and plausible piece of knowledge that warrants empirical
testing by a human researcher. To evaluate this in Section 4.2, we
introduce a gold standard based on manual annotations from senior
researchers.
ResearchLink aims to recognize sound hypotheses by integrating a
variety of features, including path-based metrics, KGEs, text embeddings, and additional information about the occurrences of relevant
entities. Fig. 1 shows the architecture of ResearchLink. It includes
four main stages. First, we generate a number of candidate hypotheses
that connect previously unrelated entities. Next, we prune this set by
ranking the candidate hypotheses using SciCheck [62], a path-based
link prediction technique. We then produce for each hypothesis a richer
representation that includes a diverse set of features reflecting both the
occurrence of the entities in the articles and their semantic context.
Finally, we apply a supervised model on this representation for ranking
the remaining hypotheses.
Algorithm 1 contains a description of ResearchLink as pseudocode.
Knowledge-Based Systems 315 (2025) 113280

A. Borrego et al.
Algorithm 1 ResearchLink Algorithm
1: Input: Knowledge Graph (KG), Number of top entities (N),
SciCheck threshold (0.5)
2: Output: Classified triples as true or false hypotheses
3: Step 1: Generate Candidate Triples
4: Identify top N entities in KG
5: for each entity 𝑒𝑖 in top N entities do
Retrieve type of 𝑒𝑖 and possible relations 𝑟
for each relation 𝑟 do
Find compatible entities 𝑡 in top N entities
for each entity 𝑡 do
10:
if (𝑒𝑖, 𝑟, 𝑡) ∉𝐾𝐺 then
11:
Add (𝑒𝑖, 𝑟, 𝑡) to candidate triples
12:
end if
13:
end for
14:
end for
15: end for
16: Step 2: Initial Pruning with SciCheck
17: Train SciCheck on KG and compute confidence scores 𝑐 for
candidate triples
18: Prune triples with 𝑐< 0.5 and keep the rest as pruned triples
19: Step 3: Pre-compute Information for Features
20: Compute necessary pre-information (TransH embeddings, degrees,
occurrences, joint occurrences)
21: Step 4: Compute Features
22: for each labeled and pruned triple (𝑠, 𝑝, 𝑜) do
23:
Compute features 𝑓1, 𝑓2, … , 𝑓8
24: end for
25: Step 5: Train Model for Hypothesis Classification
26: Train model on labeled triples using computed features
27: Step 6: Apply Model for Hypothesis Evaluation
28: for each pruned triple (𝑠, 𝑝, 𝑜) do
29:
Apply model to compute classification
30:
Label the triple as true or false hypothesis
31: end for
In the following, we will describe in detail each step.
3.1. Candidate Hypotheses Generation
The initial step involves generating a number of new relationships
between existing entities, that constitute the set of candidate research
hypotheses. This set subsequently undergoes a process of cleaning,
refinement, and ranking. This candidate set should be sufficiently
expansive to encompass a broad range of potentially interesting triples,
yet remain computationally manageable [89].
To generate an initial set of candidate hypotheses from a KG, the
following steps are undertaken. First, we identify the top 𝑁 entities
based on their frequency in triples. This approach guarantees that
each generated triple contains at least one highly-connected entity,
ensuring richer informational context in subsequent steps. We then
retrieve the type of each of the selected entities from KG’s ontology.
For example, the entity random forest is a Method, sentiment analysis is
a Task, Wikipedia is a Material, etc. This informs which relations can be
employed to pair them, given that each relation has specific domain and
range type constraints in the ontology. For instance, given the entity
Wikipedia which is of type Material, it cannot appear as the subject of
triples using relationships built on top of active verbs such as use, solve,
and acquire.
Finally, for each entity selected in the first step, the set of all triples
that respect the ontology constraints is generated. These triples have
the form (𝑒, 𝑟, 𝑡), where 𝑒 is one of the top 𝑁 entities, 𝑟 is one of the
possible relations in the KG which have the type of 𝑒 in their domain
and 𝑡 is one of the top 𝑁 entities whose type is in the range of 𝑟. Any
generated triple already present in the KG is discarded. Consequently,
for each entity 𝑒 selected in the first step, the maximum amount of
triples that are generated is:
𝑟∈𝑟𝑒
where 𝑟𝑒 is the set of relations that allow the type of 𝑒 in their domain,
and 𝑡𝑟 is the set of entities whose types are deemed by the KG’s ontology
to be admissible in the range of 𝑟.
3.2. Candidate Pruning with SciCheck
Most of the previously generated candidates are not particularly
promising, as they link entities without substantial affinity. Consequently, it is desirable to prune this set before engaging in more
computationally intensive operations. We perform this pruning by ranking the best candidates with SciCheck [62], a path-based link prediction
approach specifically tailored for scientific knowledge graphs. SciCheck
evaluates the potential validity of triples, offering a confidence score
based on both context-based and embedding-based features. In particular, SciCheck processes an entire KG composed of triples and generates
a neural-based classifier for each relation in the KG. For a given relation
𝑟, SciCheck creates a model 𝑓𝑟∶(ℎ, 𝑟, 𝑡) →𝑠, which assigns a confidence
score 𝑠 between 0 and 1 to any given triple ⟨ℎ, 𝑟, 𝑡⟩, addressing the
binary classification task of determining whether the triple is correct.
To input data into the model, triples are transformed into numerical
vector representations using specialized features and contextual embedding representations. Detailed insights about the features used are
available in [62]. It should be noted that SciCheck must be first trained
on a substantial portion of the KG. For instance, when training on the
full CS-KG, the KG used in the evaluation, we consider all statements
extracted from at least three papers, which yields a sizable set of about
1M triples.
To apply SciCheck on the set of candidate triples, we perform
the following steps. First, we train SciCheck on the entire input
knowledge graph. SciCheck requires this training process to learn what
constitutes plausible knowledge in the context of the KG. SciCheck also
autonomously produces negative triples for the training by corrupting
triples from the KG, i.e., switching the subject or object of a triple with
a different entity. As the candidate hypotheses do not exist in the KG,
SciCheck possesses no prior knowledge about them.
Following its training, SciCheck establishes a classification model
for each KG relation. This is aimed at ensuring nuanced classification,
as varied information might be optimal for different relations [31].
Candidate hypotheses are grouped by their relation and submitted to
the appropriate model. Each hypothesis is then assigned a confidence
value within the range [0, 1]. Hypotheses with confidence values below
a predefined threshold (set at 0.5 in our current configuration) are
discarded. The threshold was empirically determined based on insights
from [62].
3.3. Hypotheses conversion into feature vectors
To evaluate the candidate hypotheses using a supervised classification model, we produce a detailed vector representation for each,
derived from a range of diverse features.
More in detail, for an input triple ⟨𝑠, 𝑝, 𝑜⟩, the specific features
employed in this process include:
• Feature f1: SciCheck confidence score for the triple. The outcome of applying SciCheck to the triple, as outlined in the previous section, is retained and utilized as a classification feature. This
value is a decimal number within the range of [0.5, 1.0]. Therefore,
𝑓1 can be defined as:
𝑓1 = SciCheck(𝑠, 𝑝, 𝑜)
(1)
Knowledge-Based Systems 315 (2025) 113280

A. Borrego et al.
• Feature f2: Degree of the two entities within the KG. This
feature assesses the connectivity of the two entities in the input
triple, serving as an indicator of their prominence. It is encoded
as two integer values, representing the number of edges of the
KG connected to the subject and object entities, respectively.
More formally, let 𝑑𝑒𝑔(𝑒) denote the degree of entity 𝑒. Then, 𝑓2
can be defined as:
𝑓2 = (deg(𝑠), deg(𝑜))
(2)
• Feature f3: Number of occurrences of the two entities in
scientific abstracts. This feature quantifies the prevalence of the
subject and object within the scientific literature. It is computed
by performing text matching against a collection of research paper abstracts to determine the absolute frequency of each entity,
which is defined as the total number of times the entity appears
in the abstracts. This feature is encoded as three integer numbers:
one for the subject, one for the object, and one for their harmonic
mean.
More formally, let freqabs(𝑒) denote the frequency of entity 𝑒 in
scientific abstracts. Then, 𝑓3 can be expressed as:
𝑓3 = (freqabs(𝑠), freqabs(𝑜), 2 ⋅freqabs(𝑠) ⋅freqabs(𝑜)
freqabs(𝑠) + freqabs(𝑜) )
(3)
• Feature f4: Number of joint occurrences of the two entities
in scientific abstracts. This feature measures how often entities
have appeared together in scientific literature. It is calculated by
counting how many times they appeared in the same abstract. It
is encoded as an integer number.
Let freqjoint(𝑒1, 𝑒2) denote the frequency of joint occurrences of
entities 𝑒1 and 𝑒2 in scientific abstracts. Then, 𝑓4 can be defined
as:
𝑓4 = freqjoint(𝑠, 𝑜)
(4)
• Feature f5: Minimum embedding cosine distance between the
triple and all the other triples in the KG. This feature assesses
the novelty level of a triple by comparing it to the existing
knowledge in the input KG. This assessment holds significance as
it can highlight scenarios where a closely related concept already
exists, potentially indicating limited novelty. To compute this
feature, all triples are converted into sentences by concatenating
their subject, predicate, and object with spaces as separators.
Then, the MiniLM [90] embedding model is applied to these
sentences, generating a numerical vector representation for each
entity based on the text’s semantics. These vectors are used to
identify the triple in the KG that has the highest cosine similarity
(i.e., the lowest cosine distance) to the triple under evaluation.
The resulting value is thus a decimal number between 0 and 1. For
instance, if this feature is computed for the triple <machine learning, applied to, plane trajectory prediction> and the graph contains
a highly similar triple <machine learning, applied to, satellite orbit
prediction>, the cosine distance will be relatively low, indicating
the presence of research closely related to the evaluated triple.
More formally, let MiniLM(sentence) denote the MiniLM embedding of a sentence, concat(𝑥, 𝑦, 𝑧) represents the string concatenation of the three entities 𝑥, 𝑦 and 𝑧 resulting in the string ‘‘x 𝑦 z’’,
and let cos(𝑥, 𝑦) denote the cosine distance between vectors 𝑥 and
𝑦. Then, 𝑓5 can be expressed as:
𝑓5 =
min
∀(𝑠′,𝑝′,𝑜′)∈KG cos(MiniLM(concat(𝑠, 𝑝, 𝑜)), MiniLM(concat(𝑠′, 𝑝′, 𝑜′)))
(5)
• Feature f6: Minimum embedding Euclidean distance between
the triple and all the other triples in the KG. This feature
also evaluates the novelty of a triple, but it uses Euclidean distance instead of the cosine distance. Unlike cosine similarity,
which measures the alignment or angular similarity between embeddings, Euclidean distance considers the absolute differences
in embedding magnitudes. This approach can capture nuances
that cosine similarity might overlook, such as disparities in the
embedding space caused by variations in the semantic intensity
or specificity of the triples. For instance, if two triples share a
similar direction in the embedding space but differ significantly in
their distances from the origin, the Euclidean distance will better
capture this difference. A smaller Euclidean distance indicates
a closer semantic relationship, while a larger distance suggests
greater novelty.
This feature is also computed using the MiniLM model. Therefore,
𝑓6 can be expressed as:
𝑓6 =
min
∀(𝑠′,𝑝′,𝑜′)∈KG ‖MiniLM(concat(𝑠, 𝑝, 𝑜))−MiniLM(concat(𝑠′, 𝑝′, 𝑜′))‖
(6)
• Feature f7: Graph embedding similarity between the two
entities. This feature quantifies the semantic similarity between
two entities by calculating the cosine similarity of their graph embeddings. The embeddings are generated by using TransH [91], a
well-known general-purpose KG embedding model.
Graph embeddings provide a numerical representation of the
elements within a graph, typically including nodes and, in many
cases, their relationships [25]. These embeddings are generated
by training a neural network to optimize an objective function that captures the structural properties of the graph, often
by minimizing the distance between selected representations.
This process encodes meaningful information about the graph’s
structure and relationships into a compact, continuous vector
space. The embeddings associated with each node are expected
to reflect their structural properties, capture their semantics, and
support various machine learning tasks. For instance, if two nodes
share connections with several common nodes in the graph, their
embeddings are likely to be close in the vector space.
Let TransH(𝑒) denote the TransH embedding of entity 𝑒. Then, 𝑓7
can be represented as:
𝑓7 = cos(TransH(𝑠), TransH(𝑜))
(7)
• Feature f8: Word embedding similarity between the two entities. This feature measures the similarity between the text representations of the subject and object. It is calculated as the cosine
similarity of the word embeddings for the two entities, generated
using the MiniLM model. The resulting value is a decimal ranging
from 0 to 1. Therefore, 𝑓8 can be expressed as:
𝑓8 = cos(MiniLM(𝑠), MiniLM(𝑜))
(8)
In conclusion, since features 𝑓2 and 𝑓3 produce two values each (one
for the subject and another for the object), each triple is represented by
a feature vector of 10 values.
3.4. Hypothesis classification
ResearchLink applies a set of random forest classification models to
the representation of the candidate hypotheses in order to assess which
one is valid.
Each hypothesis deemed valid through classification is also associated to the confidence values derived from the classifier. This allows
ResearchLink to provide a ranked list of the generated hypotheses.
This aids researchers that have then to manually inspect and interpret
the hypotheses, enabling them to promptly identify the more plausible
ones.
Knowledge-Based Systems 315 (2025) 113280

A. Borrego et al.

4. Evaluation
This section presents the evaluation of ResearchLink compared to
alternative approaches, along with an ablation study analyzing the
benefits provided by the features discussed in Section 3.3.
It is important to note that ResearchLink is designed for hypothesis
generation rather than KG completion. Consequently, it cannot be evaluated using standard KG completion datasets (e.g., FB15k, WN18RR)
as they primarily focus on missing facts, many of which are trivial
and not suitable as hypotheses. Moreover, they lack essential features
required for ResearchLink, such as collections of scientific abstracts
containing relevant entities. Therefore, to conduct a rigorous evaluation
of ResearchLink, we constructed CSKG-600, a new dataset for research
hypothesis generation derived from the Computer Science Knowledge
Graph.
We acknowledge that this evaluation is limited to a single scientific
domain; however, this restriction is due to the substantial complexity
and data requirements involved in creating a benchmark for hypothesis
generation that covers all eight feature types examined in this study.
Specifically, this process requires a comprehensive knowledge graph of
research entities linked by relationships that could support hypothesis
generation, an associated bibliographic dataset to assess entity frequencies and the manual annotation of potential research hypotheses by
multiple senior researchers. CS-KG enables this approach by offering
a wealth of entities, relationships, and pertinent bibliographic data.
In the following, we first describe the use case based on CS-KG that
we adopted for evaluating our methodology. We then describe the
generation of CSKG-600 and discuss the experimental design. Finally,
we report the performance of the various techniques.
4.1. Use case: CS-KG
The Computer Science Knowledge Graph (CS-KG) [11,92] is an
open, large-scale, automatically built knowledge graph describing 41M
statements related to the Computer Science domain. It has been generated using the titles and abstracts of more than 6.7M research papers about Computer Science ranging from the year 2010 to the first
semester of the year 2021, using the Microsoft Academic Graph2 as
a data source. CS-KG includes more than 10M research entities that
can belong to 5 different classes (cskg-ont:Material, cskg-ont:Task, cskgont:Method, cskg-ont:Metric, cskg-ont:OtherEntity) described by 179 relations such as cskg-ont:usesMethod, cskg-ont:includesMaterial, skos:broader,
etc. CS-KG statements describe the relationship that stands between
two entities based on the content of scientific abstracts as a piece of
information. For instance, a triple <cskg:generative_model, usesMethod, cskg:generative_adversarial_network> from
the papers [93,94] describes the fact that there exist generative models
that use generative adversarial networks. The reader can find details
about CS-KG content and its ontology online.3
4.2. Gold standard generation
In order to evaluate our approach, we constructed CSKG-600,4 a
gold standard of 600 human-labeled research hypotheses. We generated
these hypotheses starting from a version of CS-KG containing only
data up to 2017. This enabled us to emulate the hypothesis generation
process as it would have been conducted in 2017, and then validate
the accuracy of the hypotheses by assessing if they were verified in the
following years (2018–2023). If a triple is not present in this set, it
could be due to its absence in the literature sample used to create CS-
KG or because the KG generation method failed to extract it. Therefore,
2 https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/research/project/microsoft-academicgraph/
3 https://w3id.org/cskg/cskg/documentation.php
4 https://github.com/dayala1/ResearchLink/blob/master/CSKG-600.csv
any additional triple can be considered novel within the context of
the KG, which is a necessary (but not sufficient) condition for a valid
hypothesis.
We generated an initial set of novel triples by following the methodology for producing candidate hypotheses described in Sections 3.1 and
3.2. We first materialized the Cartesian combination of all possible entities for each of the three most frequent relations in CS-KG: usesMethod,
usesTask, and usesMaterial. We then discarded the triples that were
invalid according to the ontology of CS-KG5 or that were already in the
KG. Next, we used SciCheck [62] to prune these candidate hypotheses
by computing a confidence score for each of them. This was done by
training SciCheck using only triples introduced in CS-KG before 2017,
so as to not bias the classifier with the most recent scientific knowledge.
Finally, SciCheck was used to evaluate the generated triples, and those
with a confidence value below 0.5 were discarded.
To reduce the number of hypotheses manually assessed by human evaluators, we then selected a subset of 20 popular entities
from CS-KG, covering a variety of different topics in Computer Science, e.g., autonomous_vehicle, sentiment_analysis, wearable_technology,
face_recognition, deep_learning, game_theory. For each of them, we generated 30 hypotheses. Specifically, we generated ten hypotheses for
each of the three adopted relations. This process resulted in a set of
600 candidate hypotheses, with 200 hypotheses generated for each of
the three relations under analysis.
The 600 resulting hypotheses were labeled by three senior researchers as either valid or invalid. To ensure objectivity, a hypothesis
was deemed valid if sufficiently precise and supported by at least a scientific article published post-2017. The scientists were asked to locate
relevant evidence in the literature before assessing each hypothesis.
It is crucial to highlight that both the positive and negative examples
were drawn from the same pool of candidates, all of whom had high
SciCheck scores. As a result, incorporating the SciCheck score as a
feature in ResearchLink does not introduce any bias into the evaluation
process. This systematic approach to constructing the gold standard
ensures that all valid hypotheses are manually verified and supported
by recent literature. In contrast, invalid hypotheses, though generated
by a link prediction system and therefore realistic, are deemed invalid
due to being trivial, too vague, or lacking support in current literature.
The resulting statement can be readily translated into research
hypotheses, as they facilitate the combination of the three primary
types of entities in CS-KG (methods, tasks, and materials). The sound
hypotheses generally recommend adopting specific methods, tasks, or
materials to address particular challenges.
For example, the triple <deep_learning, usesMethod, extended_kalman_filter> described in a paper from 2019 [95]
proposes incorporating an extended Kalman filter within a deep learning framework. Similarly, the triple <wearable_ technology, usesTask, emotion_recognition> has been studied in the year
2023 [96] and suggests integrating emotion recognition techniques
within wearable technologies. A third example we would like to mention is <data_compression, usesMethod, gaussian_mixture
_model> from the year 2024 [97] where data quantity minimization
is studied for real-time ambulatory and telemedicine systems with
limited storage. As previously discussed, negative examples usually
refer to trivial ideas that do not contribute to additional knowledge
(e.g., <game_theory, usesMaterial, renewable_energy>) or
are too vague (e.g., <decision_support_system, usesMaterial, geometry>).
5 https://scholkg.kmi.open.ac.uk/cskg/ontology.html
Knowledge-Based Systems 315 (2025) 113280

A. Borrego et al.
4.3. Evaluation setup
This section outlines the tested methods and the metrics we adopted
for their evaluation. We compare ResearchLink to five alternative approaches generally used for link prediction and knowledge graph completion [63]: 𝑇𝑟𝑎𝑛𝑠𝐸 [27], 𝑇𝑟𝑎𝑛𝑠𝐻 [28], 𝑇𝑟𝑎𝑛𝑠𝐷 [29], 𝑅𝑜𝑡𝑎𝑡𝐸 [30],
and 𝑅𝐺𝐶𝑁 [33]. We used the PyKEEN’s implementation of these
models [98].
We evaluate these methods by assessing their ability to assign a
score to each hypothesis in the test set of CSKG-600, reflecting its
validity. This evaluation strategy aligns with established methodologies
for applying link prediction techniques to the hypothesis generation
task [3]. It is important to highlight that, since all methods are tested
on the same set of candidate hypotheses, ResearchLink is exclusively
used to evaluate these hypotheses, as described in Sections 3.3 and 3.4
(illustrated by the blue and yellow boxes in Fig. 1).
All the methods that required training on a knowledge graph were
trained on the version of CS-KG, which contained only information
before 2017. Once trained, these methods are capable of scoring any
triple whose subject, relation, and object appeared in the training set.
Each method was then applied to the entire test set, producing a ranked
list of the candidate hypotheses. The performance of the methods was
measured using Precision@N over these ranked lists. Precision@N
(P@N) is defined as P@N = TP@N
, where TP@N represents the number
of true positives among the top 𝑁 predictions. It is often employed in
information retrieval and ranking problems to gauge the effectiveness
of the system in identifying the most relevant items within a specific
subset of the total results. For example, if a method produces 7 valid
hypotheses in the top 10 positions, its Precision@10 would be 70%. We
computed the average P@5, P@10, P@15, and P@20 across the four
cross-validation runs. In this domain, we particularly aim to achieve
better results for higher values of N, such as P@15 and P@20. These
measures are less sensitive to randomness and provide a realistic goal
of presenting researchers with 15 to 20 hypotheses, aiming for about
70%–75% to be of good quality. Conversely, P@5 was quite unstable across different experiments, as the position of a single item can
significantly affect it. Nonetheless, we still report it for the sake of
completeness.
To assess the contribution of the features discussed in Section 3.3,
we also conducted an ablation study by testing 15 versions of Researchlink using various combinations of these features. Specifically,
we evaluated four groups of features:
• SciCheck feature (𝑓1 in Section 3.3), the confidence score for the
candidate hypothesis according to SciCheck [62], a path-based
link prediction technique specifically designed for scientific KGs.
• Frequency features (𝑓2, 𝑓3, 𝑓4), which evaluate the frequency of
the entities in the KG and the literature.
• Similarity features (𝑓5, 𝑓6), which assess the similarity of the
candidate hypothesis with other triples in the KG.
• Embedding features (𝑓7, 𝑓8), which assess the similarity of the
subject and object according to their word and graph embeddings.
We then run on the gold standard 15 versions of ResearchLink
using all possible combinations of these four groups. As for the other
methods, all the features were computed on the version of CS-KG that
only contained information available before 2017.
We evaluated all approaches using k-fold cross-validation (𝑘= 4)
over the gold standard defined in Section 4.2. In each of the four
iterations, we chose a subset of 5 entities and the corresponding 150
hypotheses. These served as the test set, while the remaining 15 entities
associated with 450 hypotheses formed the training set.
Fig. 2. Results summary of each tested method. ResearchLink (best) denotes the version
of ResearchLink that obtained the best results at each metric in the ablation study.
4.4. Results
Table 2 presents the results of all experiments. The upper section
details the 15 versions of ResearchLink obtained by combining the
four groups of features discussed in the previous section. Each column
indicates whether a specific feature set was used, with True denoting
its inclusion and False indicating its exclusion. For instance, the first
row corresponds to the version of ResearchLink that utilizes only
the embedding features. The final row represents the full version of
ResearchLink that incorporates all features. The lower section of the
table reports the performance of the five alternative methods. Fig. 2
provides a summary, comparing the five baselines to the best results
achieved by the different versions of ResearchLink for each P@N.
The version of ResearchLink that utilizes the complete set of features
outperformed the five alternative approaches for P@10, P@15, and
P@20. Notably, it was able to identify several triples representing significant hypotheses that were then materialized in recent years, such as
<face_detection, usesMethod, ensemble_learning> [99], <autonomous_vehicle, usesMethod, disturbance_observer> [100], or <structural_health_monitoring, usesTask, deep_learning> [101]. The results for P@5 are more
erratic, with TransD and TransH surpassing the full version of Research-
Link. However, the overall best method for P@5 is actually a version
of ResearchLink that uses only similarity and embedding features.
It is also beneficial to examine each set of features individually to
understand their distinct contributions. Focusing on the first part of
Table 2, we can see that each feature group tends to enhance Research-
Link’s performance. Using all features achieves the best performance
for P@20 and P@10. However, other combinations are also effective
and may warrant further investigation in future work. Notably, the
version excluding the embedding features achieves the same performance as the full feature set for P@10, although with slightly lower
performance for P@15 and P@20. The adoption of different embedding
techniques may potentially further improve this approach. Similarly,
the version excluding the frequency features performs best for P@15,
suggesting that in some cases, integrating information about an entity’s
popularity is less beneficial. This may also be due to using a relatively
simple proxy, namely the number of occurrences and co-occurrences
of subjects and objects in scientific abstracts. We plan to explore more
nuanced metrics, such as normalizing the occurrence number according
to the year or the scientific field.
Finally, Fig. 2 summarizes the results, demonstrating that the general approach presented in this paper, which integrates various features
relevant to the specific hypothesis generation task, is clearly superior to
alternative methods designed for link prediction and knowledge graph
completion. This superiority is particularly evident in the most reliable
metrics, such as P@15 and P@20.
Knowledge-Based Systems 315 (2025) 113280

A. Borrego et al.
Table 2
Average Precision@N for all approaches. The best result for each metric is shown in bold.
 Scicheck
feat.
Frequency
feat.
Similarity
feat.
Embedding
feat.
P@5
P@10
P@15
P@20

False
False
False
True
0.80000
0.75000
0.73333
0.73750

True
False
0.65000
0.70000
0.66667
0.68750

True
0.85000
0.72500
0.73333
0.75000

True
False
False
0.50000
0.52500
0.60000
0.65000

True
0.80000
0.65000
0.71667
0.72500

True
False
0.75000
0.75000
0.76667
0.72500

True
0.75000
0.70000
0.73333
0.73750

True
False
False
False
0.70000
0.70000
0.65000
0.66250

True
0.80000
0.75000
0.73333
0.72500

True
False
0.70000
0.70000
0.73333
0.71250

True
0.80000
0.77500
0.81667
0.77500

True
False
False
0.70000
0.72500
0.70000
0.70000

True
0.70000
0.77500
0.73333
0.73750

True
False
0.70000
0.77500
0.78333
0.76250

True
0.75000
0.77500
0.76667
0.78750
 TransE
0.63000
0.63750
0.63500
0.63375
 TransH
0.79000
0.77250
0.73667
0.71125
 TransD
0.80500
0.74250
0.71833
0.71750
 RotatE
0.72500
0.73250
0.71667
0.70750
 RGCN
0.65000
0.65000
0.63333
0.60000
Table 3
Precision@N for the hypotheses generated by 𝑅𝑒𝑠𝑒𝑎𝑟𝑐ℎ𝐿𝑖𝑛𝑘 for a sample of entities.
 Entity
P@5
P@10
P@15
P@20
 𝑎𝑐𝑡𝑖𝑜𝑛_𝑟𝑒𝑐𝑜𝑔𝑛𝑖𝑡𝑖𝑜𝑛
1.000
1.000
0.800
0.800
 𝑝𝑎𝑡𝑡𝑒𝑟𝑛_𝑟𝑒𝑐𝑜𝑔𝑛𝑖𝑡𝑖𝑜𝑛
1.000
0.900
0.867
0.850
 𝑖𝑚𝑎𝑔𝑒_𝑎𝑛𝑎𝑙𝑦𝑠𝑖𝑠
1.000
0.900
0.800
0.800
 𝑡𝑟𝑎𝑐𝑘𝑖𝑛𝑔_𝑠𝑦𝑠𝑡𝑒𝑚
1.000
0.900
0.733
0.750
 𝑑𝑒𝑐𝑖𝑠𝑖𝑜𝑛_𝑠𝑢𝑝𝑝𝑜𝑟𝑡_𝑠𝑦𝑠𝑡𝑒𝑚
1.000
0.800
0.800
0.800
 𝑓𝑎𝑐𝑒_𝑑𝑒𝑡𝑒𝑐𝑡𝑖𝑜𝑛
1.000
0.800
0.600
0.550
 𝑛𝑒𝑢𝑟𝑎𝑙_𝑛𝑒𝑡𝑤𝑜𝑟𝑘
1.000
0.700
0.667
0.600
 𝑑𝑎𝑡𝑎_𝑐𝑜𝑚𝑝𝑟𝑒𝑠𝑠𝑖𝑜𝑛
0.800
0.500
0.533
0.550
 𝑑𝑒𝑒𝑝_𝑙𝑒𝑎𝑟𝑛𝑖𝑛𝑔
0.800
0.800
0.867
0.850
 𝑒𝑣𝑜𝑙𝑢𝑡𝑖𝑜𝑛𝑎𝑟𝑦_𝑎𝑙𝑔𝑜𝑟𝑖𝑡ℎ𝑚
0.800
0.800
0.667
0.500
 𝑤𝑒𝑎𝑟𝑎𝑏𝑙𝑒_𝑡𝑒𝑐ℎ𝑛𝑜𝑙𝑜𝑔𝑦
0.800
0.800
0.600
0.650
 𝑎𝑢𝑡𝑜𝑛𝑜𝑚𝑜𝑢𝑠_𝑣𝑒ℎ𝑖𝑐𝑙𝑒
0.800
0.700
0.733
0.600
 𝑠𝑒𝑛𝑡𝑖𝑚𝑒𝑛𝑡_𝑎𝑛𝑎𝑙𝑦𝑠𝑖𝑠
0.800
0.700
0.667
0.750
 𝑔𝑟𝑎𝑝ℎ𝑖𝑐𝑠_𝑝𝑟𝑜𝑐𝑒𝑠𝑠𝑖𝑛𝑔_𝑢𝑛𝑖𝑡
0.800
0.700
0.600
0.650
 𝑔𝑎𝑚𝑒_𝑡ℎ𝑒𝑜𝑟𝑦
0.400
0.700
0.667
0.550
 𝑚𝑢𝑙𝑡𝑖𝑎𝑔𝑒𝑛𝑡_𝑠𝑦𝑠𝑡𝑒𝑚
0.400
0.400
0.267
0.300
Table 3 reports the performance of ResearchLink on a sample of
entities. Generally, the results are satisfactory, with valid hypotheses involving most entities ranked at the top. However, notable performance
variations exist between them, implying that specific characteristics
of the entities might substantially influence our ability to evaluate
relevant research hypotheses. For instance, the system obtains perfect
accuracy for the top 5 hypotheses on entities such as 𝑎𝑐𝑡𝑖𝑜𝑛_𝑟𝑒𝑐𝑜𝑔𝑛𝑖𝑡𝑖𝑜𝑛
and 𝑓𝑎𝑐𝑒_𝑑𝑒𝑡𝑒𝑐𝑡𝑖𝑜𝑛. Conversely, it obtains sub-par results for other ones,
such as 𝑚𝑢𝑙𝑡𝑖𝑎𝑔𝑒𝑛𝑡_𝑠𝑦𝑠𝑡𝑒𝑚. A more in-depth investigation of this aspect
will necessitate further future work.