Abstract
With knowledge graphs (KGs) at the center of numerous applications such as
recommender systems and question answering, the need for generalized pipelines
to construct and continuously update such KGs is increasing. While the individual steps that are necessary to create KGs from unstructured (e.g. text)
and structured data sources (e.g.
databases) are mostly well-researched for
their one-shot execution, their adoption for incremental KG updates and the
interplay of the individual steps have hardly been investigated in a systematic
manner so far. In this work, we first discuss the main graph models for KGs and
introduce the major requirements for future KG construction pipelines. Next,
we provide an overview of the necessary steps to build high-quality KGs, including cross-cutting topics such as metadata management, ontology development,
and quality assurance. We then evaluate the state of the art of KG construction w.r.t the introduced requirements for specific popular KGs as well as some
recent tools and strategies for KG construction. Finally, we identify areas in
need of further research and improvement.
Keywords:
Knowledge Graph, Data Integration, Data Science

1. Introduction
Aggregated machine-readable information in the form of knowledge graphs
(KG) serves as the backbone of numerous data science applications nowadays,
ranging from question-answering [1] over recommendation systems [2] to predicting drug-target interactions [3]. The ever-changing nature of information
necessitates the design of KG construction pipelines that are able to incorporate
new information continuously. In the development of such a system, knowledge
engineering teams have to deal with a variety of challenges from tackling scalability and heterogeneous data sources to tracking the provenance of data. Given
the usually large volume of data that needs to be integrated, such pipelines have
to be automatized as much as possible while aiming at a high degree of data
quality.
Knowledge graphs generally integrate heterogeneous data from a variety of
sources with unstructured and semi-structured data of different modalities (e.g.,
pictures, audio, text) as well as structured data such as databases or other KGs
in a semantically rich way. The construction of a KG therefore encompasses
a multi-disciplinary effort requiring expertise from research areas such as natural language processing (NLP), data integration, knowledge representation,
and knowledge management. Knowledge graphs are at the center of numerous use-cases for data analysis and decision support. In the clinical setting,
enriching patient data with medical background knowledge enables improved
clinical decision support [4]. Sonntag et. al. [5] argue that properly aligning
the semantic labels attached to the patient data with medical ontologies is crucial in creating meaningful access to the heterogeneous patient data. Knowledge
graphs are also used to organize the relevant information for fast emerging global
topics, such as pandemics (e.g., Covid-19) or natural disasters [6].
Machine
learning also benefits from KGs as a source of labeled training data or other
input data [7, 8] thereby supporting the development of knowledge- and datadriven AI approaches [9]. KGs can further be combined with Large Language
Models (LLMs) to improve factual correctness and explanations in questionanswering, e.g. with ChatGPT, thereby promoting quality and interpretability
of AI decision-making [10, 11].
Improving the pipelines that build such knowledge graphs and enabling them
to efficiently keep current and semantically meaningful aggregated knowledge
is therefore an effort that benefits a wide range of application areas. However,
KGs are currently created often in a batch-like manner so that the respective pipelines are unfit to incorporate new incoming facts into a KG without
full re-computation of the individual tasks. Furthermore, different steps of the
pipelines often require manual intervention, thereby limiting scalability to large
data volumes and increasing the time for updating a KG.
There is a growing number of surveys about knowledge graphs, especially on
their general characteristics and usage forms [7, 9, 8]. An excellent tutorial-style
overview about the construction and curation of KGs is provided in [12] with
a focus on integrating data from textual and semi-structured data sources such
as Wikipedia. Other surveys focus on KG construction with specific technologies [13, 14] or only a single domain such as for geographical data [15]. We
discuss related surveys on KG construction in Section 6 and contrast them with
our approach.
This survey article provides a concise yet comprehensive entry into the current state of the art in KG construction for readers new to the topic, as well
as contributing valuable guidance for researchers, engineers, and experts by
highlighting existing solution approaches, tools, and identifying open gaps in
the areas.
We first outline the main requirements for the construction and
continuous maintenance of KGs distilled from the literature as well as our experience and reasoning. Next, we give an overview of the concrete subtasks of
KG construction and current solution approaches. Furthermore, we select 23
KG-specific construction approaches as well as generic toolsets based on the
criteria discussed in Section 4.1 and evaluate and compare them w.r.t. the requirements introduced in Section 2.3. Finally, we identify open challenges and
current limitations and thus areas for further research.
Our survey builds on previous studies for KG construction but differs in
essential aspects as will be explained in detail in Section 6. In contrast with most
other surveys, we explicitly specify the main requirements for KG construction
and use these as a guideline for evaluating current solutions and identifying
open challenges. We are also more comprehensive in several important aspects
as we cover different graph data models (RDF and property graphs) and deal
with incremental KG construction and data integration including incremental
entity resolution in much more detail. We also provide a comparison between
many carefully selected KG-specific construction approaches and toolsets and
identify open challenges that go beyond those discussed in previous surveys.
The further structure of this survey is as follows:
• After a definition of KGs and a comparative discussion of graph data
models for KGs we introduce and categorize the general requirements for
incremental KG construction in Section 2.
• In Section 3 we provide an overview of the main tasks in incremental KG
construction pipelines and proposed solution approaches for them.
• We then investigate and compare existing construction efforts for selected
KGs as well as within recent tools for KG construction w.r.t. the requirements introduced earlier. This also allows us to identify tasks that are not
yet supported well.
• Section 5 discusses open challenges for KG construction.
• Section 6 contains a more in-depth comparison with the related work.
• Finally, we offer concluding remarks and a summary.