Abstract. In recent years, we saw the emergence of several approaches
for producing machine-readable, semantically rich, interlinked description of the content of research publications, typically encoded as knowledge graphs. A common limitation of these solutions is that they address
a low number of articles, either because they rely on human experts to
summarize information from the literature or because they focus on speciﬁc research areas. In this paper, we introduce the Computer Science
Knowledge Graph (CS-KG), a large-scale knowledge graph composed by
over 350M RDF triples describing 41M statements from 6.7M articles
about 10M entities linked by 179 semantic relations. It was automatically
generated and will be periodically updated by applying an information
extraction pipeline on a large repository of research papers. CS-KG is
much larger than all comparable solutions and oﬀers a very comprehensive representation of tasks, methods, materials, and metrics in Computer Science. It can support a variety of intelligent services, such as
advanced literature search, document classiﬁcation, article recommendation, trend forecasting, hypothesis generation, and many others. CS-KG
was evaluated against a benchmark of manually annotated statements,
yielding excellent results.
Keywords: Knowledge graph · Scholarly data · Information
extraction · Natural language processing · Semantic Web · Artiﬁcial
Intelligence

Introduction
In the last few years, we have witnessed a paradigm shift towards Open Science, greatly increasing the availability of scientiﬁc articles, datasets, software,
and other research outcomes. This represents an historical opportunity to support researchers with new tools enabling more sophisticated search, exploration,
and analytical services than the ones currently available. However, the current
document-centric scholarly communication paradigm does not enable scholars to
eﬃciently explore, categorize, and reason on this knowledge [17]. Scientists need
instead to ﬁnd and manually analyze large number of static PDF ﬁles in order to
gain a (often incomplete) understanding about recent research advancements [9].
In recent years, we saw the emergence of several solutions for producing
machine-readable, semantically rich, interlinked descriptions of the content of
research publications, typically encoded as knowledge graphs [12,22,36,40,46].
For instance, the Open Research Knowledge Graph1 [22] oﬀers an infrastructure
for describing articles in a structured manner, making it easy to ﬁnd and compare
them. The resulting knowledge graph includes about 10K articles, 4.5K research
problems, and 3.3K datasets. Similarly, Nanopublications2 [19] allow users to
represent scientiﬁc facts as knowledge graphs and have recently been used to
support “living literature reviews”, which can be continuously amended with new
ﬁndings [46]. A common drawback of these solutions is that they are limited to
a relatively low number of articles, either because they rely on human experts to
summarize information from the literature [22,24] or because they focus on very
speciﬁc domains (e.g., computational linguistics [16], intrusion detection [48]).
In order to address this issue, in 2020 we released the Artiﬁcial Intelligence
Knowledge Graph (AI-KG) [15], the ﬁrst automatically generated large-scale
knowledge graph of AI, which included 1.2M statements about 820K research
entities. This resource was an important ﬁrst step in the large-scale generation
of scientiﬁc knowledge graphs, inspiring further work in this direction [6,31] and
supporting several methods for classifying and recommend scientiﬁc papers [8,21,
25]. However, AI-KG still suﬀers from a number of signiﬁcant limitations, which
emerged clearly during discussions with its users. First and most important, it
only covers about 330K articles in AI: sizable compared to alternative solutions,
but not quite representative of the millions of articles published in Computer
Science. Second, the methodology for integrating diﬀerent lexical variations of
entities did not always work, resulting in multiple versions of the same entity
(e.g., recommendation_system and recommendation_framework). Finally, the
mapping schema used for recognizing a relations (e.g., aikg-ont:supportsMethod)
from verbal predicates in the articles (e.g., support, enable, foster) was quite
limited. As a result, sentences using less frequent predicates were not considered.
In this paper, we introduce the Computer Science Knowledge Graph (CS-
KG), a large-scale knowledge graph composed by over 350M RDF triples describing 41M statements from 6.7M articles about 10M entities (e.g., tasks, methods,
materials, metrics) linked by 179 semantic relations. Our objective is to make
available and maintain a comprehensive representation of all the signiﬁcant concepts in this ﬁeld, in order to support a variety of intelligent services, such as
advanced search, article recommendation, trend forecasting, hypothesis generation, and many others.
CS-KG is an order of magnitude larger than AI-KG. Speciﬁcally, it is 34
times larger in terms of number of statements and 20 times larger in terms of
number of articles. It was generated by applying an improved version of the AI-
KG pipeline [14] which includes the following advancements: 1) a novel module
to merge diﬀerent lexical representations of the same entity based on transformers [32], 2) a new methodology to map verbal predicates to relations which
exploits VerbNet [38], and 3) a richer domain ontology describing 179 semantic
relations. CS-KG was evaluated on a benchmark of 1, 200 manually annotated
statements, yielding excellent results in comparison with alternative solutions.
CS-KG is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International
License (CC BY 4.0). It available as a dump3 or via a SPARQL endpoint4.
In summary, the main contributions of this resource paper are:
– The CS-KG knowledge graph, which includes 41M statements about 10M
entities in Computer Science.
– An improved pipeline for knowledge graph generation from research articles.
– An analysis of the entities and statements extracted from 6.7M articles.
– A ground truth5 of 1200 manually annotated statements, which can be used
as a benchmark for statements validation.
The remainder of this paper is organized as follows. Section 2 discusses the
related work, pointing out the existing gaps. Section 3 describes CS-KG and its
user cases. The pipeline used for its generation is discussed in Sect. 4. Section 5
reports several statistics about CS-KG and Sect. 6 describes the evaluation.
Finally, Sect. 7 concludes the paper, discusses the limitations, and deﬁnes future
directions of research.

The Computer Science Knowledge Graph
The Computer Science Knowledge Graph (CS-KG) includes over 350M RDF
triples that describe 41M statements and 10M entities extracted from a collection of 6.7M scientiﬁc papers in the period 2010–2021. These articles were
selected by considering all papers from 2010 to 2019 with at least 1 citation
(as of December 2021) and all the papers in 2020-2021 period from the set of
articles from MAG [44] associated with the Field of Study “Computer Science”.
Since MAG has been decommissioned in 2021, the following versions will adopt
OpenAlex, which oﬀers a comparable publication coverage.
The CS-KG ontology is available at https://scholkg.kmi.open.ac.uk/cskg/
ontology and builds on top of SKOS8 and PROV-O9. Its documentation is
available at https://scholkg.kmi.open.ac.uk/cskg/ontology.html. The current
schema in CS-KG uses the namespaces http://scholkg.kmi.open.ac.uk/cskg/
ontology# to refer to elements that belong to the ontology (preﬁx cskgont), and http://scholkg.kmi.open.ac.uk/cskg/resource/ for the instances (pre-
ﬁx cskg). The ontology deﬁnes 179 relations (e.g., cskg-ont:usesMethod, cskgont:solvesTask) between ﬁve entity types: cskg-ont:Task, cskg-ont:Method, cskgont:Material, cskg-ont:Metric, cskg-ont:OtherEntity.
In order to design the object properties, we started from a set of 39 high level
predicates (e.g., uses, analyzes, includes) produced by the knowledge graph
generation pipeline (see Sect. 4.2). We then associate speciﬁc domain and range
constraints to them, which are used to drive and correct the automatic extraction
process. For example, since a Method or a Task can use a Material, the predicate
uses was used to create the object property cskg-ont:usesMaterial which has
cskg:Method and cskg:Task in its domain as well as cskg:Material as its range.
We instead considered incorrect to claim that a cskg:Material uses a cskg:Method,
and therefore, the domain of the property cskg-ont:usesMethod does not include
the class cskg:Material.
A statement in CS-KG refers to a speciﬁc claim extracted from a research
article, deﬁning a relationship between two entities, e.g., <cskg:web_ontology_
language, skos:broader, cskg:semantic_web_standard_technology>. Naturally, it is not possible to verify the objective truth of every claim. As a consequence, within CS-KG and its potential use cases, a claim should be considered
correct only in the context of the research papers linked to it. We also associate
the statement with metadata about the original articles and other provenance
information. Each statement in CS-KG includes:
– rdf:subject, rdf:predicate, and rdf:object, which provide the reiﬁcation of triples
within a rdf:Statement;
– cskg-ont:hasSupport, which reports the number of articles that contributed to
create the statement (support);
– provo:wasDerivedFrom, which provides provenance information and lists the
MAG IDs (now OpenAlex IDs) of the articles from which the statement was
extracted;
– provo:wasGeneratedBy, which provides provenance and versioning information of the tools used to detect the statement.
The support score can be used to select subsets of statements that are supported
by a good number of articles, and thus are typically more reliable (see evaluation
in Sect. 6).
In the following we report an exemplary statement:
cskg:statement_4508242 a cskg-ont:Statement, provo:Entity;
rdf:subject
cskg:web_ontology_language;
rdf:predicate
skos:broader;
rdf:object
cskg:semantic_web_standard_technology;
cskg-ont:hasSupport 6;
provo:wasDerivedFrom cskg:2913757079,
cskg:2145844448,
...,
cskg: 1551604567;
provo:wasGeneratedBy cskg:DyGIEpp.
This statement describes a claim which is extracted from 6 papers (MAG
IDs 2913757079, 2145844448, etc.), by the tool DyGIEpp.
Following the best practices of Linked Data, entities in CS-KG are associated with a set of alternative labels that are used to refer them in the scientiﬁc
literature. For example, the entity cskg:recurrent_neural_network is associated
with the labels recurrent neural network, recurrent trainable neural network, and
recurrent neural network paradigm. CS-KG also provides 31K owl:sameAs links
to DBPedia [4], 27K links to Wikidata10, and 6K to the Computer Science Ontology (CSO) [37]. For instance the entity cskg:feedforward_neural_network is
linked to the CSO topic cso:feedforward_neural_network, to the DBpedia entity
dbpedia:Feedforward_neural_network, and to the Wikidata entity wd:Q5441227.
CS-KG can support several intelligent services that require a high quality
representation of research concepts and currently rely on alternative knowledge bases which cover a smaller number of publications (e.g., AI-KG, ORKG,
Nanopublications) or oﬀer a less granular conceptualization of the domain
(SemanticScholar, OpenAlex, AIDA). These include systems for supporting
machine-readable surveys [30,46], tools for generating research hypothesis [20]
and detecting contradictory research claims [3], ontology-driven topic models (e.g., CoCoNoW [5]), recommender systems for articles (e.g., SBR [41])
and video lessons [7], visualisation frameworks (e.g., ScholarLensViz [26], ConceptScope [47]), scholarly knowledge graph embeddings (e.g., Trans4E [29]),
tools for identifying domain experts (e.g., VeTo [42]), and systems for predicting
research impact (e.g., ArtSim [13]).
We plan to keep maintaining and updating CS-KG in the following several
years. We thus created a fully automatic pipeline that we will run every six
months to produce new versions of CS-KG that will include recent papers from
OpenAlex. Indeed, one of the advantage of our solution is that it does not require
heavy workload for the maintainers. In order to cope with the ever increasing number of papers, we are also embedding big data technologies within the
pipeline. We also plan to keep evolving the ontology by including new predicates
according to patterns emerging from the data and the community feedback.
10 https://www.wikidata.org/wiki/Wikidata:Main_Page.
Fig. 1. Architecture of the automatic generation pipeline.

Automatic Generation of CS-KG
This section brieﬂy describes the methodology that we applied to build the CS-
KG. It builds on top of the pipeline introduced in [14], which has already been
successfully employed to build the Artiﬁcial Intelligence Knowledge Graph (AI-
KG) [15]. Our new approach is more scalable, allowing to eﬃciently compute
the much larger set of articles used for CS-KG. It also extends signiﬁcantly the
range of semantic relations extracted from the literature by using VerbNet [38] to
semi-automatically enrich the domain ontology. Finally, it can extract multiple
relationships between a pair of entities, while the previous solution was limited
to one. Figure 1 shows an overview of the automatic extraction pipeline.
4.1
Extraction Modules
The proposed methodology employs four complementary tools to extract entities and relationships from plain text (typically the titles and abstracts of the
articles). These tools are:
– DyGIEpp [43]. This tool extracts a set of entities EDy of six pre-deﬁned
types (Method, Task, Material, Metric, Other-Scientiﬁc-Term, and Generic)
and seven kinds of relationship (Used-for, Hyponym-Of, Compare, Part-of,
Conjunction, Feature-of, Evaluate-for). It is used to yield a set of entities
EDy and a set of triples among them, TDy.
– Computer Science Ontology Classiﬁer (CSO-C) [34]. CSO-C is a classiﬁer which exploits syntactic and semantic similarity to map text spans to
topics in CSO. It extracts the set of entities ECSO.
– OpenIE of the Stanford Core NLP suite [1]. This tool is used to extract open
domain relationships from plain texts of the input dataset among the entities
in the sets EDy and ECSO. The module considers only triples whose relations
are composed by only one verb and yields the set of triples TOIE.
– PoS Tagger (PoST). This module is built on top of the Stanford Core
NLP suite [28]. It uses part-of-speech (PoS) tags to ﬁnd all verbs that exist in
sentences between pairs of entities. For example, given a sentence s and two
entities in it ei and ej where ei, ej ∈EDy ∪ECSO, this module builds triples
<ei, v, ej>, where v is a verb in s between ei and ej. This module uses a
window of size 15 as the maximum number of tokens that can occur between
two entities to extract verb relations. It returns the set of triples TP oS.
The sets TDy, TOIE, and TP oS are given as an input to the Entities and
Relations Handler Module.
4.2
Entities and Relations Handler Module
This module has been developed to integrate and clean up entities and relationships from the diﬀerent tools, in order to reduce noise and redundancies.
Entities Handler. This module: (i) lemmatizes all entities to group singulars
and plurals forms of the same entities; (ii) solves acronyms by exploiting the fact
that they are usually placed in brackets near entities in the text; (iii) removes
entities which appear in a handcrafted blacklist; (iv) removes generic entities
which have an information content provided by WordNet equal to or lower than
an empirically deﬁned threshold of 5. In order to not discard key entities for the
this domain, the module uses a whitelist of research entities which includes the
‘Fields of Study’ from MAG.
Next, a sentence transformer model is used to detect and merge entities with
the same meaning.
Given the set of all entities, let us say E, the module creates an index based
on the tokens contained by the entities. The index links each token to all the
entities that include it. Then, it compares two entities ei, ej ∈E if they share at
least one token. The comparison is performed by using the state-of-the-art framework SentenceTransformers [32] and encoding the entities with the paraphrasedistilroberta-base-v2 11 transformer model. Entities which have a cosine similarity
equal to or greater than a threshold thmerge = 0.9 (empirically calculated) are
merged together. For example, if the entity ei and ej have a cosine similarity
greater than 0.9, then the module chooses ei as representative entity for both ei
and ej, and uses ej as an alternative label of ei.
Relationships Handler. The sets TDy, TOIE, and TP oS may contain several
redundant triples that use diﬀerent predicates (e.g., includes, embeds, contains)
to convey the same meaning. We address this issue by mapping similar verbs
to the same predicate. The mapping schema has been built by enriching our
previous handcrafted mapping [15] with VerbNet [38], which oﬀers a complete
and coherent semantic representations of verbs [10]. Verbnet is a taxonomy of
11 https://huggingface.co/sentence-transformers/paraphrase-distilroberta-base-v2.
English verbs organized in classes whose verbs share syntactic and semantic
coherence. It enables to build new taxonomies with domain-speciﬁc jargon while
holding as a core the most common use of verbs based on their semantics in
more general contexts. Speciﬁcally, we associated the extracted verbs with the
high-level predicates of the previous mapping as well as relevant VerbNet classes.
We then manually reﬁned this schema to produce a ﬁnal set of 39 representative
predicates mapped to 464 verbs from the articles12. These same predicates were
also used to produce the relevant relations in the CS-KG ontology.
All verbs of sets TOIE, and TP oS are mapped using this schema. The relations
generated by DyGIEpp in the set TDy are also mapped to the same representative
predicates13. For example, two triples which share the same entities such as <a,
embeds, b> and <a, contains, b> will be merged in a single triple <a, includes,
b>, given that embeds and contains are mapped to includes. After mapping
all the relations of the sets TDy, TOIE, and TP oS, the module yields the set of
triples T.
4.3
Ontology-Based Checker Module
In this phase, the CS-KG ontology is used to integrate entities from diﬀerent
tools and discard triples that do not comply with domain and range of the
relations. All triples of the set T are then represented according to the CS-KG
ontology. The types of entities returned by the DyGIEpp tool are mapped to
the relevant classes in the ontology. Speciﬁcally, methods, tasks, materials, and
metrics are mapped to the homonymous classes in the ontology (e.g., material is
mapped to the class cskg-ont:Material), while other-scientiﬁc-terms and generic
entities are mapped to cskg-ont:OtherEntity. The predicates are mapped to the
ontology object properties. For instance, <cskg:semantic_interoperability,
uses, cskg:ontology_matching>, considering that <cskg:ontology_matching,
rdf:type,
cskg-ont:Task>,
becomes
<cskg:semantic_interoperability,
cskgont:usesTask, cskg:ontology_matching>.
In this phase, triples which do not comply with the semantics of the ontology are discarded. For example the triple <cskg:utk_face_dataset,uses,
cskg:deep_learning>, where cskg:utk_face_dataset is a cskg-ont:Material and
cskg: deep_learning is a cskg-ont:Method, is discarded because the class cskg-ont:
Material is not in the domain of the property cskg-ont:usesMethod.
4.4
Machine Learning-Based Checker Module
Triples obtained from several articles are typically of good quality, since the
probability of extracting the same incorrect claim from multiple papers is fairly
low. On the other hand, triples which appear in one or very few papers are more
noisy and less reliable. We can thus use the number of papers associated with
a triple, which we label support, to distinguish between reliable and uncertain
Fig. 2. Distribution of the research areas in terms of relevant papers.
triples. However, we do not want to automatically discard all uncertain triples,
since many of them may be valid. Therefore, this module uses a classiﬁer to
decide which triples need to be included in the knowledge graph. It ﬁrst splits T
in two disjoint sets: Treliable (support ≥3) and Tuncertain (otherwise). The set
Treliable is employed to train a Multi-Layer Perceptron classiﬁer which implements a function θ : t →{0, 1} that, given an input triple t, predicts 1 if the
triple t is correct and can be included in the knowledge graph, and 0 if the triple t
should be discarded. In order to generate negative triples for the training phase,
each triple t ∈Treliable is corrupted by a triple t′|t′̸ ∈T by replacing the head or
the tail with a random chosen entity. The set of the triples {t′
0, . . . , t′
n} constitutes the set of negative triples Tnegative. Therefore the set Treliable ∪Tnegative is
actually used to train the model. The rationale behind this solution is to use the
classiﬁer to identify high quality triples in the set Tuncertain which is consistent
with triples of the set Treliable. The set of triples for which the classiﬁer predicts
1 is referred as Tconsistent. Finally, the triples in sets Treliable and Tconsistent as
well as all associated information (e.g., support, relevant articles, and so on) are
reﬁed into statements and encoded as RDF in order to generate CS-KG.

Evaluation
In order to evaluate the automatic methodology used for producing CS-KG,
we measured its performance on a manually annotated gold standard. To this
purpose, we ﬁrst selected 1200 statements which contain as subject or object one
of sub-topics of Machine Learning14 according to CSO. More speciﬁcally, the set
of statements was created by aggregating: 1) 200 statements whose support is
greater than 5, 2) 200 statements whose support is equal to or greater than 3, 3)
200 statements whose support is lower than 3, 4) 400 statements discarded by
the methodology, and 5) 200 randomly generated statements that are not part
of CS-KG. The latter were produced by replacing the subject or the object of a
statement from CS-KG.
This set was then manually annotated by 3 senior computer science
researchers. For each triple, the experts were asked to return 1 if a triple was
correct, i.e., it appeared in literature, and 0 otherwise. They were also allowed
to use online tools to check if a triple was consistent with the scientiﬁc literature. The Fleiss’ kappa agreement [18] between the annotators was 0.435,
indicating a moderate agreement. The majority vote schema was employed to
generate the gold standard. In order to show the advantage of our hybrid method
that builds on top of multiple tools, we compared our full methodology against
DyGIEpp [43], OpenIE [1], PoST [28], and against the union of their results
14 https://cso.kmi.open.ac.uk/topics/machine_learning.
Table 2. Precision (P) Recall (R) and F-measure (F1) over 1,200 annotated statements.
Extraction tools
DyGIEpp
0.67
0.37
0.47
OpenIE
0.60
0.24
0.34
PoST
0.56
0.46
0.51
DyGIEpp + OpenIE + PoST 0.55
0.93 0.69
CS-KG pipeline
0.76 0.77
0.76
(DyGIEpp + OpenIE + PoST). Table 2 reports the results of the evaluation in
terms of precision, recall, and f-measure. The CS-KG pipeline outperforms all
the other tools yielding a overall f-measure of 0.76. This demonstrates how the
checker modules (described in Sects. 4.3 and 4.4) are able to increase signiﬁcantly
the accuracy of the statements (+21% in precision), paying a relatively low price
in recall. An inspection of the results shows also that 86% of the statements with
support greater than 5 are correct, consistently with the intuition that support
is an indicator of a triple correctness. The method which aggregates all the basic
tools (DyGIEpp+OpenIE+PoST) performs second best (0.69), highlighting the
value of an hybrid approach that combines both unsupervised and supervised
methods. Finally, DyGIEpp, OpenIE, and PoST obtain f-measures in the 0.47-
0.51 range. Among them, DyGIEpp has the highest precision (0.67), while PoST
has the highest recall (0.46).
In summary, the evaluation suggests that i) CS-KG oﬀers good quality statements, in particular when associated to a good support, ii) the performance of
each of the three tools is unsatisfactory and, therefore, it is worth to produce
a pipeline that is able to combine them, and iii) the components of the CS-KG
pipeline used to discriminate valid statements (i.e., the Machine Learning-based
Checker Module and the Ontology-based Checker Module) play an important role
in improving the overall quality and reducing noisy and incorrect statements.