A B S T R A C T
Ensuring the quality of knowledge graphs (KGs) is crucial for the success of the intelligent
applications they support. Recent advances in large language models (LLMs) have demonstrated
human-level performance across various tasks, raising the question of their potential for KG
validation. In this work, we explore the role of LLMs in human-centric KG validation workflows,
examining different collaboration strategies between LLMs and domain experts. We propose and
evaluate nine distinct approaches, ranging from fully automated validation to hybrid methods
that combine expert oversight with AI assistance. These workflows are tested within a real-world
KG construction pipeline used to generate the Computer Science Knowledge Graph (CS-KG),
a large-scale resource designed to support scientometric tasks such as trend forecasting and
hypothesis generation. CS-KG comprises 41 million statements represented as 350 million triples
within the Computer Science domain. Our findings show that integrating LLMs into the CS-
KG verification process enhances precision by 12%, improving alignment with expert-level
validation. However, this comes at the cost of recall, resulting in a 5% decrease in the overall F1
score. In contrast, a hybrid approach which involves both human-in-the-loop and LLM modules,
yields the best overall results, improving F1 score by 5% with minimal human involvement.

1. Introduction
Knowledge graphs (KGs) are conceptual models that structure domain knowledge, integrated from various sources, and stored
in a machine-readable and understandable format (Hogan et al., 2021; Peng, Xia, Naseriparsa, & Osborne, 2023). KGs are employed
in a variety of intelligent applications (Paulheim, 2017) supporting tasks such as question answering (Yani & Krisnadhi, 2021),
recommender systems (Guo et al., 2020), and exploratory search (Nuzzolese, Presutti, Gangemi, Peroni, & Ciancarini, 2017). KGbased solutions have been adopted across various domain such as medicine (Li et al., 2020), production & manufacturing (Wang,
Cheng, Qi, & Tao, 2024; Xu & Dang, 2023), tourism (Chessa et al., 2023), and education (Su & Zhang, 2020). In the scientometrics
domain, scientific KGs have recently gained significant interest as a solution for knowledge-based content exploration of scientific
works (Dessí, Osborne, Reforgiato Recupero, Buscaldi, & Motta, 2022b; Dessì et al., 2020; Jaradeh et al., 2019; Meloni et al., 2023;
∗Corresponding author.
E-mail addresses: stefani.tsaneva@wu.ac.at (S. Tsaneva), danilo.dessi@gesis.org (D. Dessì), francesco.osborne@open.ac.uk (F. Osborne),
marta.sabou@wu.ac.at (M. Sabou).
1 These authors contributed equally.
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ipm.2025.104145
Received 14 September 2024; Received in revised form 26 February 2025; Accepted 10 March 2025
Information Processing and Management 62 (2025) 104145
Available online 9 April 2025
0306-4573/© 2025 The Authors.
Published by Elsevier Ltd.
This is an open access article under the CC BY license
( http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/ ).

S. Tsaneva et al.
Sakor et al., 2023). Some of the proposed scientific knowledge graphs have been manually curated, ensuring the high quality of these
resources, such as the Open Research Knowledge Graph (Jaradeh et al., 2019). Others prioritize a high coverage of the scientific
domain and have been generated through automated approaches, e.g., COVID-19 Knowledge Graph (Sakor et al., 2023) and the
Computer Science Knowledge Graph (Dessí et al., 2022b).
While automated KG generation allows the integration of content from a vast amount of sources and provides extensive coverage
of a given domain, the produced resources can face quality issues such as the inclusion of erroneous, inconsistent or misleading
facts (Paulheim, 2017; Zaveri et al., 2013). To ensure the success of systems relying on the constructed KGs, knowledge graph
validation is an essential step to be integrated within KG generation pipelines.
Against this backdrop, various approaches for KG quality evaluation have been proposed. In Xue and Zou (2023), the authors
provide an overview of state-of-the-art validation techniques, categorized as automated methods relying on statistics (e.g., outlier
detection and KG embedding) or rules (e.g., ontology-based rules), and methods relying on a human-in-the-loop (HiL), such as
crowdsourcing. While some KG generation pipelines contain an integrated automated validation stage, HiL-based KG validation
techniques do not scale well (Paulheim, 2017; Xue & Zou, 2023) and are thus often excluded or envisioned as a future extension.
Recently, large language models (LLMs) have demonstrated human-like performance in a variety of natural language processing
tasks, significantly reducing the need of human intervention (Chiang & Lee, 2023; Sallam, Al-Salahat, Eid, Egger, & Puladi, 2024). As
a result, several works in the knowledge engineering domain, e.g., Allen and Groth (2024), Fathallah et al. (2024), Khorashadizadeh,
Mihindukulasooriya, Tiwari, Groppe, and Groppe (2023), Tsaneva, Vasic, and Sabou (2024), have been inspired, reporting promising
LLM performance in the evaluation of semantic resources (i.e., ontologies, KGs). However, the conducted experiments are limited
in terms of the simplicity of the application domain, small size of the evaluated resource and lack of comprehensive experimental
investigations. Moreover, many open questions remain: (i) how should the proposed LLM-based approaches be evaluated? (ii) how
should LLM-based approaches be integrated into the generation of real KGs? (iii) could these solutions fully replace or only support
human validators?
This paper primarily addresses question (iii) above, exploring how to best combine LLMs and HiL for KG validation. Specifically,
we investigate the following two research questions.
RQ1: What are different ways to combine LLMs and HiL contributors for the validation of large knowledge graphs? We investigate novel
KG validation workflows, incorporating both HiL and LLM validations, to improve the performance of KG generation pipelines.
We base our work on previous research on collaborative human-LLM workflows from a spectrum of automation levels, proposed
for relevance judgments tasks in Faggioli et al. (2023), which we adopt for KG validation. As a result, we propose nine distinct
validation workflows- three workflows that rely exclusively on human judgment, three hybrid solutions involving a combination of
human expertise and LLMs, and three fully automated LLM-based validation pipelines. Each workflow is tailored towards a specific
evaluation goal and availability of HiL and LLM resources to provide adaptability across different use cases.
RQ2: What are the strengths and limitations of human-LLM collaborative knowledge graph validation workflows? To the best of our
knowledge, no prior empirical investigation has been performed of the trade-offs involved in hybrid human-machine workflows for
KG validation. Thus, we conduct two experimental investigations on a large scale resource, representing a non-trivial domain, to collect
empirical evidence and facilitate a direct comparison of the achieved performance with each workflow.
To explore RQ1 and RQ2, we consider the validation of the Computer Science Knowledge Graph (CS-KG) as our use case. CS-KG
is a scientific knowledge graph, automatically generated from 6.7M publications, supporting researchers and funding agencies by
enabling the exploration of research dynamics (Dessí et al., 2022b). We selected this KG for its relevance to various applications,
its broad coverage of scientific concepts and domains, and its focus on a field well-known to the authors. Furthermore, CS-KG was
constructed using an open methodology that already integrates a few validation techniques, which we can leverage in our analysis.
Specifically, CS-KG was generated using the SCICERO pipeline (Dessí, Osborne, Recupero, Buscaldi, & Motta, 2022a), which extracts
scientific statements from literature and represents them as triples of the form <subject, predicate, object>, for instance, <cloud service,
acquires, information integration> or <text classification, includes, text processing>. SCICERO includes an automated validation stage,
which we extend by integrating it with HiL techniques, LLM-sourced validations or a combination thereof. Subsequently we evaluate
the achieved performance of these SCICERO extensions on a set of 3.6𝐾 triples.
Our results indicate that: (1) an LLM-based validation can increase precision from 75% up to 87% without requiring any manual
validation efforts; (2) both fully manual and fully automated validation approaches present trade-offs between precision and recall;
and (3) a hybrid approach, leveraging a HiL only upon a disagreement among automated methods, leads to smaller precision
improvement up to 80% and overall highest F1 score reaching 82% (+5% compared to SCICERO) with minimal manual efforts.
The remainder of this paper is structured as follows. Section 2 reviews related research in the area. Section 3 introduces CS-KG
and its extraction pipeline SCICERO. In Section 4, we propose extensions of SCICERO, covering a spectrum of automation levels
from purely HiL-based validation to purely LLM-based validation. Section 5 details the design of two experiments carried out to
evaluate these extended workflows. The experiment results are discussed in Section 6, followed by a conclusion and future work
directions in Section 7.

4. Integrating LLMs and HiL into the SCICERO validation
Human validation has frequently been envisioned as an addition to automated KG generation workflows to ensure the quality
of the produced knowledge graphs. We investigate possible extensions of the SCICERO pipeline with an additional human validator
module. Building on recent advances in LLMs research, which have shown expert-level results for KG validation (Tsaneva, Vasic
et al., 2024), we also investigate an additional LLM validator module. We explore both workflows, where the LLM validator fully
replaces the human validator as well as scenarios where LLMs and human annotators collaborate in the KG validation task.
This section discusses potential SCICERO extension workflows, with a particular focus on the level of collaboration between
distinct validation modules. Formally, let 𝑇 be a set of input triples, 𝑆 be the SCICERO pipeline, and 𝑉 the outcome of the triple
validation. We want to introduce one or both modules 𝑀𝑗, where 𝑗∈{𝐻𝑖𝐿, 𝐿𝐿𝑀}, such that the enhanced pipeline 𝑆+𝑀𝑗 archives
better performance in terms of precision, recall, and F1 score, compared to 𝑆 alone in validating the triples to be added to CS-KG.
We build on top of our recent work (Tsaneva, Dessì, Osborne, & Sabou, 2024), where we perform a preliminary investigation of
possible SCICERO extensions to select the most meaningful workflows which lead to the best performance scores. In the following
section (Section 5) we discuss two experiments with concrete implementation details for the LLM and human validator modules.
In Table 1, we categorize potential extension workflows based on the level of collaboration between the integrated LLM and
the human validator. Specifically, we classify these workflows according to the four categories introduced in Faggioli et al. (2023):
human judgment, AI assistance, human verification, and full automation. Sections 4.1–4.4 provide a detailed description of each
workflow and define the expected roles of the corresponding validation modules.
Additionally, we differentiate the types of the incorporated validation methods according to the classification from Xue and Zou
(2023). In Figs. 2–10, statistics and learning-based methods are displayed in red. Rule-based methods are shown in yellow and
human-based methods are displayed in purple.
4.1. Human judgment
We first explore possible positions of the human validator module within the SCICERO pipeline without involving an LLM. Since
the original SCICERO pipeline already contains two automated validators, we consider several alternative configurations:
Human validation (workflow 1 in Table 1). For a completely manual annotation process without any tool-support the SCICERO
pipeline needs to be modified. This involves replacing the entire SCICERO validation stage with a human validator module as
illustrated in Fig. 2. While this workflow ensures full decision control by the human annotators, it is not a scalable solution for the
validation of large resources such as CS-KG.
Human validation after SCICERO (workflow 2 in Table 1). An intuitive extension of SCICERO with human validation implies the
positioning of the human validator module at the end of the SCICERO pipeline (see Fig. 3). In this scenario, the automated
transformer and ontology validators can be seen as filters that the human judges utilize in order to reduce the pool of triples that
need to be verified. The ontology validator relies on expert-defined rules that apply to the domain, while the transformer validator
can be adjusted with the desired triple support level. By placing the human validator at the end, humans retain full control of what
is included in the final KG while automated tools support the removal of noisy triples. This workflow is particularly useful when
the primary validation goal is to further enhance the precision of the resulting KG triples.
Information Processing and Management 62 (2025) 104145

S. Tsaneva et al.
Table 1
Possible extensions of SCICERO, employing various levels of interaction among human and LLM validations, following the
interaction classification from Faggioli et al. (2023).
 Collaboration level
Workflow
Figure
Workflow description

 according to Faggioli et al. (2023)

 Human Judgment

Fig. 2
Human validation with no automated support.


Fig. 3
Human validation as a final step of SCICERO’s
validation. Experts are supported in the removal of
noisy triples but have full decision control over
triple additions to the KG.


Fig. 4
Partial human validation for low-support triples
(𝑇𝑐𝑜𝑛𝑠𝑖𝑠𝑡𝑒𝑛𝑡) as a final step of SCICERO’s validation.
Highly supported triples (𝑇𝑐𝑜𝑛𝑠𝑖𝑠𝑡𝑒𝑛𝑡) are directly
added to the KG.

 AI Assistance

Fig. 5
Balanced competence partitioning. Human
validation for low-support triples (𝑇𝑐𝑜𝑛𝑠𝑖𝑠𝑡𝑒𝑛𝑡) and
LLM validation of highly supported triples
(𝑇𝑐𝑜𝑛𝑠𝑖𝑠𝑡𝑒𝑛𝑡).

 Human Verification

Fig. 6
Human validation triple correctness upon
disagreement. LLM validation of 𝑇𝑡−𝑑𝑖𝑠𝑐𝑎𝑟𝑑𝑒𝑑 and
𝑇𝑐𝑜𝑛𝑠𝑖𝑠𝑡𝑒𝑛𝑡 triples. Human validation whenever the
LLM module disagrees with the original SCICERO
validators.


Fig. 7
Human validation upon triple removal
disagreement. LLM validation of 𝑇𝑡−𝑑𝑖𝑠𝑐𝑎𝑟𝑑𝑒𝑑. Human
validation whenever the LLM disagrees with the
original SCICERO validators.

 Fully Automated

Fig. 8
LLM-based triples verification added to SCICERO’s
validation stage. LLMs take the final judgment.


Fig. 9
LLM-based triples verification after SCICERO’s
original automated validation for 𝑇𝑐𝑜𝑛𝑠𝑖𝑠𝑡𝑒𝑛𝑡.


Fig. 10
LLM-based triples verification. Replacement of the
SCICERO validation through an LLM validation.

Fig. 3. Workflow 2: Human validation integration as a last step of the SCICERO validation.
Partial human validation after SCICERO (workflow 3 in Table 1). While sending all triples to the human validator module ensures
the highest level of human oversight, this solution does not scale well for large resources since the manual efforts are enormous.
Thus, we also consider a version of this workflow, where the human validator is only involved for the annotation of selected triples.
Specifically, human annotation is added only for triples with limited literature support (Fig. 4). Although not every triple is manually
reviewed before it is added to the KG, human oversight can be ensured by the selection of an appropriate reliability threshold for
the transformer validator and establishing rules, to be followed by the ontology validator, with domain experts.
Following the task-partitioning idea from Faggioli et al. (2023), workflow 3 can also be classified as an example of AI assistance
since human judges take control over 𝑇𝑐𝑜𝑛𝑠𝑖𝑠𝑡𝑒𝑛𝑡, while the automated validators takes care of 𝑇𝑟𝑒𝑙𝑖𝑎𝑏𝑙𝑒. However, in this paper we
focus on the interaction between the human validator and LLM validator modules and thus consider the interaction in the workflow
as human judgment. Next, we propose an extension of workflow 3 more closely fitting the AI (LLM) assistance paradigm.
Information Processing and Management 62 (2025) 104145

S. Tsaneva et al.
Fig. 4. Workflow 3: Partial human validation integration as a last step of the SCICERO validation for low-support triples (𝑇𝑐𝑜𝑛𝑠𝑖𝑠𝑡𝑒𝑛𝑡).
Fig. 5. Workflow 4: Balanced competence partitioning. Human judges validate 𝑇𝑐𝑜𝑛𝑠𝑖𝑠𝑡𝑒𝑛𝑡 triples while LLMs judge triples belonging to 𝑇𝑟𝑒𝑙𝑖𝑎𝑏𝑙𝑒.
Fig. 6. Workflow 5: Human validation upon triple correctness disagreement among the LLM validator and original SCICERO validators.
4.2. AI assistance
Balanced competence partitioning (workflow 4 in Table 1). Intuitively, LLMs are likely to be more capable at validating statements that
often occur in literature because of the availability of a larger training dataset. In contrast, human judges might struggle reviewing
statement extracted from numerous sources, especially if contradictory results are presented. Therefore, we propose a workflow
where LLMs deal with triples linked to a higher amount of scientific texts (i.e., triples with high support), while human participants
focus on triples for which only a few references are available (i.e., triples with low support). Fig. 5 visualizes the capability-based task
partitioning between the LLM validator (for 𝑇𝑟𝑒𝑙𝑖𝑎𝑏𝑙𝑒) and the human validator (for 𝑇𝑐𝑜𝑛𝑠𝑖𝑠𝑡𝑒𝑛𝑡) after the original SCICERO validation
modules.
4.3. Human verification
A typical human verification workflow, where human participants judge the results of an automated approach, does not reduce
the number of triples to be verified since all triples would be annotated both within the LLM validator module and the human
validator module. Moreover, an over- or under-reliance on the LLM might affect the judgment capabilities of the human participants.
To address this issue, we adopt the ‘‘preference-testing’’ strategy from Faggioli et al. (2023), and apply it to the triple validation
task such that a human judge is involved only whenever a disagreement among automated validation modules occurs.
Human validation upon correctness disagreement (workflow 5 in Table 1). The original SCICERO evaluation revealed that 34% of the
triples removed by the transformer validator were in fact correct triples. In contrast, 35% of 𝑇𝑐𝑜𝑛𝑠𝑖𝑠𝑡𝑒𝑛𝑡 triples, added to the KG,
were incorrect (Dessí et al., 2022a). To address this, as shown in Fig. 6, an additional LLM validator module can be integrated to
re-evaluate triples before their removal or addition to the KG. The disagreement paradigm can be employed whenever the LLM
validator produces an output different from the original SCICERO validation modules. Following the intuition that triples verified
as correct by several distinct automated approaches are likely to be correct, human participants can focus only on annotating triples
where no conclusive decision could be established.
Information Processing and Management 62 (2025) 104145

S. Tsaneva et al.
Fig. 7. Workflow 6: Human validation upon triple removal disagreement among the LLM validation and SCICERO transformer validator.
Fig. 8. Workflow 7: SCICERO integration with an LLM for triple addition approval.
Fig. 9. Workflow 8: SCICERO integration with an LLM validator for triple addition approval of 𝑇𝑢𝑛𝑐𝑒𝑟𝑡𝑎𝑖𝑛 triples.
Human validation upon triple removal disagreement (workflow 6 in Table 1). The previously proposed workflow can be adopted based
on the main KG validation goals to reduce the manual efforts. For instance, workflow 6 (Fig. 7) follows the disagreement strategy
only for the removal of triples and not for triple additions to the KG. Such an approach is especially useful whenever a higher KG
coverage is desired. In comparison, for use cases with high KG precision requirements, such as those in the medical domain, the
disagreement strategy might only be added for the addition of triples, to allow human participants to focus on removing misleading
information.
4.4. Fully automated
We propose two integration approaches of the LLM module within the SCICERO framework.
SCICERO integration with the LLM validator (workflow 7 in Table 1). In this setup, the LLM validator is assumed to be better performing
than the SCICERO automated validation and is therefore added as a last step of the workflow to ensure no noisy triples are included
in the final KG. The transformer and ontology validators are utilized as filters reducing the LLM annotation costs, however, the final
decision is taken by the LLM.
SCICERO with LLM validator approval for 𝑇𝑢𝑛𝑐𝑒𝑟𝑡𝑎𝑖𝑛 (workflow 8 in Table 1). An alternative workflow, exploiting the task-partitioning
paradigm, is shown in Fig. 9. The LLM validator module is integrated before the removal of triples or addition of triples with lower
scientific support (i.e, triples belonging to 𝑇𝑢𝑛𝑐𝑒𝑟𝑡𝑎𝑖𝑛). This workflow is the fully automated replication of workflow 5, however,
instead of involving a HiL on disagreement, the annotation by the LLM is considered reliable and is used as the final decision.
Complete LLM validation (workflow 9 in Table 1). Building on related work in the field of LLMs (Chiang & Lee, 2023; Tsaneva, Vasic
et al., 2024), we also propose a workflow in which the original SCICERO validation stage is entirely replaced by an LLM-based
validator, as illustrated in Fig. 10. This workflow allows the investigation of the capabilities of LLMs as standalone annotators,
compared to the performance achieved with the integration of the LLM within the SCICERO validation stage.
Information Processing and Management 62 (2025) 104145

S. Tsaneva et al.
Fig. 10. Workflow 9: LLM validation in place of the original SCICERO validation.
Fig. 11. Overview of the two experiment setups: Experiment A, conducted on the full CS-KG-3600 dataset by simulating the human validator module, and
Experiment B, leveraging a subset CS-KG-600 and a concrete human validator implementation.

5. Experiment design and implementation
To evaluate each of the nine SCICERO validation workflows described in Section 4, we designed two experiments that differ
in the dataset used and the implementation of the validator modules. It is important to emphasize that this study does not aim to
evaluate the HiL or LLM validation modules in isolation. Instead, our objective is to assess their integration within an existing KG
generation pipeline and to analyze the benefits of incorporating both LLMs and HiL in the validation stage. Therefore, we do not
assess these modules separately using standard triple classification benchmarks.
An overview of the experimental investigation is illustrated in Fig. 11. We first conducted a large-scale simulation (Experiment A)
using the adopted workflows to validate 3.6𝐾 triples. In this setting, the human validator module was simulated using the annotations
of the original domain experts from the SCICERO evaluation (Dessí et al., 2022a), who manually classified each triple as either true or
false. Our objective was to evaluate these collaborative workflows based on (1) precision, recall, and F1 scores, and (2) scalability,
by analyzing the required number of HiL and LLM annotations. In Experiment B, we validated the findings of Experiment A by
implementing an actual human validator module, comprising a pool of recruited domain experts. Given the additional manual
effort required, this experiment was conducted on a representative subset of 600 triples from the original dataset.
We introduce the used dataset in Section 5.1 and describe the experimental setups of experiments A and B in Sections 5.2 and
5.3 respectively.
5.1. Experimental data
For the experimental investigations we make use of (1) CS-KG-3600: a gold standard created during the original SCICERO (Dessí
et al., 2022a) evaluation,5 and (2) CS-KG-600: a subset of this gold standard allowing for testing of additional validation
implementations.
5 The gold standard is available under https://github.com/danilo-dessi/SKG-pipeline/tree/main/eval
Information Processing and Management 62 (2025) 104145

S. Tsaneva et al.
Table 2
Overview of the LLMs employed for the experiment, their version, and the date of the conducted experiment.
 Model
Version
Experiment Date
 GPT-4o
gpt-4o-2024-05-13
May 22nd, 2024
 Claude Sonnet
claude-3-5-sonnet-20241022
Jan 31st, 2025

 Llama 3.3 70B
Llama-3.3-70B-Instructa
Feb 14, 2025

a We utilized the model available on Hugging Fac’s platform accessible at https://huggingface.co/meta-llama/Llama-3.3-70B-
Instruct
CS-KG-3600. For the SCICERO evaluation, a 3.6𝐾 triples set was sampled from the generated CS-KG, including equal amounts (600)
of triples from each of the following categories:
• triples with very high support levels (∈𝑇𝑟𝑒𝑙𝑖𝑎𝑏𝑙𝑒)
• triples with high support levels (∈𝑇𝑟𝑒𝑙𝑖𝑎𝑏𝑙𝑒)
• triples with low support levels (∈𝑇𝑐𝑜𝑛𝑠𝑖𝑠𝑡𝑒𝑛𝑡)
• triples labeled as incorrect by the transformer validator (∈𝑇𝑡−𝑑𝑖𝑠𝑐𝑎𝑟𝑑𝑒𝑑)
• triples removed by the ontology validator (∈𝑇𝑜−𝑑𝑖𝑠𝑐𝑎𝑟𝑑𝑒𝑑)
• randomly produced triples (𝑇𝑟𝑎𝑛𝑑𝑜𝑚) generated by replacing the head or tail of CS-KG triples.
The triples were manually evaluated by 3 senior researchers in the Computer Science field and the annotations were aggregated
using a majority voting strategy to determine the ground truth value for each triple. Further details are available in Dessí et al.
(2022a).
CS-KG-600. We create a smaller representative dataset for exploration and findings validation purposes. CS-KG-600 is sampled from
CS-KG-3600 and consists of 100 randomly selected triples from each of the six subsets contained within the gold standard.
5.2. Experiment A: Large scale simulation on CS-KG-3600
In this section, we describe the implementation of each newly added validation module for the first experiment (left-hand side
of Fig. 11). This experiment was conducted on the full CS-KG-3600 gold standard.
LLM validator. The LLM module is implemented as follows:
• Binary triple validation task. Given a set of triples 𝑇, where each triple 𝑡 is represented as 𝑡= (𝑠𝑢𝑏𝑗𝑒𝑐𝑡, 𝑟𝑒𝑙𝑎𝑡𝑖𝑜𝑛, 𝑜𝑏𝑗𝑒𝑐𝑡), the
goal is to classify each triple as true or false, formalized as 𝑉(𝑡) ∶𝑇→{0, 1}.
• Employed LLMs. We employed three alternative LLMs in our experiment: GPT-4o,6 Claude Sonnet,7 and Llama 3.3.8 These
models are among the highest-performing in the field and have each demonstrated superior performance across a wide range
of tasks in previous studies. In particular, the GPT family has demonstrated excellent performance in class membership relation
validation (Allen & Groth, 2024). Similarly, GPT-4o and Claude Sonnet have achieved expert-level ontology axiom validations,
exceeding the results of open source models (Tsaneva, Herwanto et al., 2024).
Additionally, we aimed to include an open model to accommodate scenarios where deploying a local solution is essential
for validating private resources. While privacy concerns were not a factor in this study, since CS-KG exclusively extracts
information from publicly available scholarly publications, we acknowledge that on-premise LLMs may be necessary in
other applications. Since recent studies have shown that Llama 3 70B outperforms other open models in triple consistency
validation (Regino & Dos Reis, 2025), we select its successor – Llama 3.3 – as on open source model for our experiments.
Table 2 outlines the specific versions of the models employed in our study, along with the corresponding dates on which each
experiment was performed.
• LLM prompting. Fig. 12 shows the initial instructions sent to the LLM model, introducing the annotation task and specifying
the expected format of the response. Initial investigation revealed that requesting only the triple id and a binary judgment
often resulted in incomplete or excessive judgments, which was addressed by requiring the complete triples to be included in
the response.
After the behavior of the LLM is defined, batches of 100 triples without any additional contextual information are sent for
validation. In cases where the response did not match the required response format, the annotation was ignored and the
same batch was sent again. To mimic a typical crowdsourcing experiment, we used the model’s default parameters settings
(e.g., temperature) and sent each batch of triples three consecutive times. The final judgment for each triple was determined
using a majority vote aggregation of all responses.
6 GPT-4o - https://openai.com/index/gpt-4o-system-card
7 Claude Sonnet - https://www.anthropic.com/news/claude-3-5-sonnet
8 Llama 3.3 - https://www.llama.com/docs/model-cards-and-prompt-formats/llama3_3
Information Processing and Management 62 (2025) 104145

S. Tsaneva et al.
Fig. 12. Initial instructions prompt sent to the LLM, introducing the annotation task, expected behavior and response format to be followed.
Human validator. Because of the large size of the dataset (3.6𝐾 triples), to reduce the annotation efforts of the experiment, we
simulate human-in-the-loop validations for the complete dataset by leveraging the original expert annotations used to create the
gold standard. For each triple 𝑡, the gold standard dataset contains three binary expert annotations and the aggregated final ground
truth value 𝐴𝑡= {𝑎1, 𝑎2, 𝑎3, 𝑎𝑔𝑡}, 𝑎𝑖∈{0, 1}. For each triple 𝑡 we select a single random expert judgment 𝑎𝑟∈{𝑎1, 𝑎2, 𝑎3} to allow the
reusability of the previously established gold standard while limiting biases introduced by the usage of the gold standard within the
validation stage. Within the evaluation of the proposed SCICERO workflows, the selected random annotation 𝑎𝑟 is compared against
the ground truth value 𝑎𝑔𝑡.
5.3. Experiment B: Real-life validation of CS-KG-600
The second experiment (right hand-side of Fig. 11) focuses on a realistic implementation of the human validator module. We
perform the experiment on the subset CS-KG-600 to reduce additional manual annotation efforts.
LLM validator. For the LLM validator implementation we reuse the produced LLM annotations previously described in Section 5.2.
Since CS-KG-600 is sampled from CS-KG-3600, no additional LLM annotation had to be carried out.
Human validator.
• Binary triple validation task. Given a set of triples 𝑇, where each triple 𝑡 is represented as 𝑡= (𝑠𝑢𝑏𝑗𝑒𝑐𝑡, 𝑟𝑒𝑙𝑎𝑡𝑖𝑜𝑛, 𝑜𝑏𝑗𝑒𝑐𝑡),
and triple context 𝐶𝑡= (𝑠𝑢𝑏𝑗𝑒𝑐𝑡_𝑡𝑦𝑝𝑒, 𝑜𝑏𝑗𝑒𝑐𝑡_𝑡𝑦𝑝𝑒, 𝑓𝑖𝑙𝑒_𝑖𝑑𝑠), containing the types of the subject and object nodes as well the
identifiers of the files where the triples were extracted from. The goal is to classify each triple as true or false, formalized as
𝑉(𝑡, 𝐶𝑡) ∶𝑇→{0, 1}.
• Sample size. To minimize the annotation efforts, only triples which are sent to the human validator module in one of the
workflows 2–9 are annotated. In total, 333 triples were reviewed.
• Annotators background. The annotators were four advanced PhD researchers with Computer Science (or equivalent)
background, who did not have any involvement in the creation of CS-KG, SCICERO or the initial gold standard creation. They
were asked to judge whether a triple is correct or incorrect according to their expertise and support in scientific literature.
• Annotation environment. The annotations were performed using Google Sheets, where each triple was presented in natural
language, displaying the subject, object, and relation, along with the types of the subject and object. During the annotation
process, participants had access to the files associated with the articles from which each triple was extracted and could use
digital libraries such as Scopus9 to browse through additional scientific content in order to provide an informed decision.
Example triples provided to the annotators with contextual information are shown in Table 3. The first columns represent
the triple elements. Let us consider the validation of the triple <natural language processing, uses, word segmentation> as an
example. As contextual information, the annotators are provided with the knowledge that both natural language processing and
word segmentation are classified as Task. Additionally, they are given the identifiers of three files from which the triple was
extracted. To access the original papers, they were instructed to use OpenAlex.10 For instance, the file identified as 2110300018
can be accessed at https://openalex.org/works/w2110300018.
• Annotation strategy. Each triple was first annotated by a single expert. In cases where the expert had doubts about the
correctness of a triple, a second expert was asked for a judgment. If the annotations were inconclusive, a discussion among
the two experts took place and if no agreement could be reached, a third expert was involved and the final decision was
reached through majority vote. Each annotator worked at their own pace, and, following the necessary discussions, the final
annotations were completed within a week.
9 Scopus - https://www.scopus.com/
10 OpenAlex - https://openalex.org/
Information Processing and Management 62 (2025) 104145

S. Tsaneva et al.
Table 3
Example triples and the provided context in the format presented to the annotators.
 Subject
Relation
Object
Subject
type
Object
type
Files

 natural
language
processing
uses
word
segmentation
Task
Task
2110300018,
158142204,

 information
integration
acquires
patient
address
Task
Other
Entity

 semantic
profile
representation
acquires
document
classification
Method
Task

Table 4
Experiment A results on the CS-KG-3600 dataset in terms of precision (P), recall
(R), F1 scores and additional resource efforts provided as 𝑁𝐿𝐿𝑀 and 𝑁𝐻𝑢𝑚𝑎𝑛. The
best score for each workflow across LLMs is shown in bold and the best scores per
workflow type are underlined.
Workflow
Performance
Annotations
Fig.
Model
𝑁𝐿𝐿𝑀
𝑁𝐻𝑢𝑚𝑎𝑛
SCICERO
Fig. 1
75%
79%
77%
Human Judgment
Fig. 2
88%
87%
87%
3.6K
Fig. 3
93%
71%
81%
1.8K
Fig. 4
83%
77%
80%
AI Assistance
Fig. 5
gpt-4o
90%
66%
76%
1.2K
claude sonnet
87%
69%
77%
1.2K
llama 3.3 70B
85%
73%
79%
1.2K
Human Verification
Fig. 6
gpt-4o
80%
82%
81%
1.1K
claude sonnet
78%
86%
82%
1.1K
llama 3.3 70B
78%
86%
82%
1.1K
Fig. 7
gpt-4o
75%
83%
79%
claude sonnet
75%
87%
81%
llama 3.3 70B
75%
86%
80%
Full Automation
Fig. 8
gpt-4o
87%
62%
72%
1.8K
claude sonnet
81%
69%
75%
1.8K
llama 3.3 70B
80%
73%
76%
1.8K
Fig. 9
gpt-4o
78%
77%
77%
1.1K
claude sonnet
74%
87%
80%
1.1K
llama 3.3 70B
72%
86%
79%
1.1K
Fig. 10
gpt-4o
70%
70%
70%
3.6K
claude sonnet
61%
85%
71%
3.6K
llama 3.3 70B
58%
89%
70%
3.6K